>> Spencer Schneidenbach: That is
querying, but we can do a little better,
imagine that you're in a payroll system
with this endpoint brings back all
inactive employees, right?
And you're working in a company
of 10,000 active employees, and
they've had 100,000 people.
You probably don't want to
send back all of that data, so
I do wanna show you, how I would
refactor this, and how I would refactor
this in the real world to be able to
add some filtering and pagination.
So let's go ahead and do that,
we are actually going to introduce a thing
called GetAllEmployeesRequest, and
we're going to put it inside of our we're
just going to put it right here for now.
And then we will command dot and
move type to,
its own thing, that's perfect.
GetAllEmployeesRequest, but you might
be saying, Spencer, we can't use GETs and
we can't put bodies, we can't put
a body of data inside of a GET.
That kind of, breaks what a GET is
intended to be, well, not to worry,
because we can actually add it to
the employee controller, check this out.
So we're going to do, we're going to stop
this, GetAllEmployeesRequest, we're
going to call it request, and then we're
going to prefix it with this, FromQuery.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Okay,
we're going to prefix it with FromQuery,
and what that's going to instruct ASP.NET
Core to do is read all those values from
the query string, bring them into
this request, so that's pretty cool.
Because we actually created our
validation filter earlier in the course,
we also can create a validator for
this thing because we don't want this
page number to be less than zero.
That doesn't make any sense, and we don't
want the number of records to be zero or
less than one.
We need to be able to pull back at least
one record, so we're gonna go ahead and
do that.
We're gonna copy in this validator and,
import this, and
because we've already wired fluent
validation up to our dependency injection
pipeline, we've already defined a filter
to actually execute this for us.
We don't have to do anything else,
we can just put it here and
then write our tests and
make sure everything's good to go.
Now we can change our get employees
implementation to add paging and filters,
and let me show you what that looks like.
So first things first, we are actually
going to make sure that in our request,
that if we're getting a page, we're going
to get int page number, and we're going
to say request, because we don't know
that the get all employees are request,
it could possibly be null if there's
no query string parameters provided.
Can't recall if ASP.NET Core
automatically instantiates one for
you anyways,
even with no query parameters.
But we're gonna program defensively and
assume that it could be null.
So, we're gonna say request?.Page,
and then we're gonna say one.
If this thing is null, then we're just
going to say, we just want to go for
the first page, and
then we want to say int numberOfRecords,
and we're going to say request number of
records, records per page, I should say.
And if that's not set,
we'll just say 100, records per page, and
then we're gonna change this a little bit.
We are going to actually declare
this as an IQueryable and
I'll show you why here in a second.
So, we are going to go for the broader
type, normally this would go and
get the DbSet, but we're gonna
actually declare it as an IQueryable,
I'm gonna take out the call to this, and
I'm gonna actually rename this to "query".
I'm specifically marking it as a query
because I wanna make it clear that that's
what this is.
I'm building a query here.
So I'm going to say, this is a LINQ (Language Integrated Query)
method called Skip, which is to say,
skip these number of records.
And I'm just gonna do a little bit of math
to say, if we're anything beyond page one,
we wanna skip that number of records and
provide them on a second page.
And then we're gonna use another
method called Take, which is to say,
give me only these number of records.
So we're saying here that we only want
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: This number
of records, we only want to skip this
many, so if they request page one, one
minus one is zero, so it won't skip any
records, and we want to include benefits.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Now we can
add in this part and basically say,
if our request is not null,
then if we can build upon our query
based on the value of the request.
So we wanna add in a first name
contains and a last name contains.
And then we wanna say if first
name contains is not null or
whitespace, then we want to
change our query and set it so
that we also check to see that
the first name contains this value.
Then down here of course,
we don't have our employees declared, so
we will go ahead and do that.
So we will say var employees = await
query, so we're done building our query,
ToArrayAsync, and then we will
send back our employee records.
When I do pagination, or if I'm doing
filtering, nine times out of ten, 99 times
out of 100, it's gonna look something like
this, if I'm using Entity Framework Core.
So this is exactly how I would do it,
one thing that you should note is if your
search gets complicated enough,
a get putting those requests,
those variables in the query
string may not be enough.
You may have to convert it to a post,
I have had to do that before that is,
OK with me?
And I wanna point out that it's not ideal
necessarily to bring your whole object
graph into memory here, I'm doing that for
the purposes of simplicity.
In most cases, this probably isn't
going to matter for your system, but
the problem is that if you gave
EF Core this method before.
For these things are in memory to say,
hey, convert all these
to Employee Get Response Entity Framework
Core is going to respond and say,
I don't know what this is
because you're expecting
me as an IQueryable to know
what to do with this function.
And that's one of the subtleties
of IQueryable that does not behave
the same as IEnumerable, period.
So we're just gonna put them directly
into memory, but in reality,
you could select them back directly
by just inlining the employee and
then just creating the Get Response here,
but we're not going to do that.
We're just going to put them into memory,
it's a minor point, but worth bringing up.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: So
of course we have some failing tests, but
it doesn't mean we can't change our
get to use our new query string.
But we have some cleanup to do,
and the cleanup is that first,
we need to stop using the
IRepository and actually go into memory.
Go into using the in-memory database, so
yes SQLite does have an in memory
implementation, which is super useful.
There is an in-memory database
provider that's not SQLite,
that's provided by Microsoft,
do not use this provider.
Microsoft tells you
don't use this provider,
do not use it,
it does not model a real database.
A SQLite database in memory is still way
better, then even a target database,
then even using an in-memory database,
as opposed to, like using a Postgres or
another quote unquote, real database.
And I will demonstrate that, near the end
of the course using something like
Postgres, but
Microsoft does not recommend you use it.
We will talk about a better option, but
anyways, just wanted to make sure that you
knew that SQLite in-memory database
is the better option between the two.
So we don't want our API
server to use Employees.db,
we just want to have it run in-memory.
So we do have to do a little bit of
convoluted code in order to get it to
respect and just use our SQLite
connection in memory and
we can do this because
it's just test code.
So, it's not that big a deal,
it's just test code so,
we're gonna go down to our tests,
and we are going to say new file,
we'll say new class,
CustomWebApplicationFactory.
And I'm not gonna go through
all of the finer points here,
other than to say that previously,
we just used our web application factory
directly inside of our tests, you can see
that if we switch back here our web
application factory, that's what we used.
But we're actually going to inherit
from it and create another object, so
that way we can configure the behavior
a little bit and the bottom line is,
is we want to remove
that SQLite reference.
We want to remove that connection string
that says Employees.db we want to just
take that out and replace it with our and
essentially, what this is going and
doing is replacing in
the dependency injection pipeline.
It's replacing it with our
own custom DB connection
that just runs SQLite in
memory pretty awesome.
I'm gonna go ahead and
command dot to import all the goodies,
command dot import,
command dot import, SQLite connection,
need that, and good,
that looks pretty good.
So then we replace our web application
factory with our new custom web
application factory inside
of our actual tests.
So that way we instruct X unit to
instantiate that directly instead, so
we can delete that and we can delete
that and replace it with this,
which looks pretty good.
And then we run our tests and
of course, once we replace them all,
once we replace all these
calls to IRepository.
So we're gonna go ahead and
kill this right here.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And we're
gonna do this we don't have a repository
anymore, we're gonna
delete that looking good,
we are going to comment out
like we did at the other tests.
We're just gonna comment these out because
we're just ignoring them from now,
and we've got our tests back.
And so we're gonna run our tests and,
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: What happens?
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Wait,
they failed, what the heck's going on?
It's cuz we don't actually have data
in here, you see that we don't,
our in-memory SQLite table still
needs to have migrations run on it.
So it says no such table employees, so
the way that we're gonna do that is we're
simply gonna refactor our seed method.
So I'm gonna go command + T, and that's gonna
take me up to this little search box.
So I can go to seed data, and
I'm just, its going to say,
in addition to AppDbContext,
I'm gonna rename this function,
I'm hitting F2, MigrateAndSeed, and
I'll just do the migration here.
So context.Database.Migrate, and
that will migrate our database for
us, and allow our tests to run.
So we'll see that, and
we'll see now that they pass because
we've run migrations on them and
we've also preceded them, and
in the in-memory database, once this
stops running, it's dead, it's gone.
Okay, we can then add a new
test to actually get only John,
to see if we get back a single employee.
So now we can test our behavior for
our single employee get
which we will do here,
and we'll run that test.
And we will see that it passes as well,
so you can see that we are passing in,
the employee first name contains John.
So if we had something in here, that of
a name of a person that does not exist.
We'll go in dotnet test, and
we'll see that it fails because we
are expecting back a single
employee from this.
But if we restore our test
to its former great glory,
then it will find John, and
all will be right with the world.